So now that those main important steps are done and as an editor, we want to do everything in our power,
use all the techniques that we have to further create a world for our viewers to go to when they're
experiencing our video.
Now, there's a certain softness to this project in particular.
There's a certain organic ness and naturalness that I want to really create at the beginning as our
video starts, almost like the beginning of a story and a nice gradual ending.
And one way to do that is to create a fade in and a fade out on a project.
I really don't use these very often, but for this project in particular, I think it's going to work
pretty well and just be a nice little subtle way to start the video and way to end the video.
So right now, our video starts like this.
But I think if we add just a subtle cross dissolve at the beginning, it's going to look pretty nice.
So there's two ways to do this.
We can select our clip, go to our effects panel and type in cross dissolve.
This is going to give us the cross dissolve transition that we can drag and drop to the beginning of
our clip.
And that kind of creates a nice little visual intro.
OK.
We miss her first note.
We don't really see her striking her first note.
So it's two things we can do.
We can either select and make this dissolve shorter or what we can do is look at our whole timeline.
And we can select all of the clips in our timeline by doing command A.
And then we can scoot our entire edit over and we can increase the beginning of this clip to make more
time for this new cross dissolve that we added to finish before the actual song starts.
Let's see what that looks like.
So now we have just a few extra frames that we added to compensate for the fade that's coming in here
and still get this first strike that she plays at this opening note right here.
Now, the second option we can do to add the crosses of is to first delete this transition that we dropped
on and bring up our pen tool.
Okay.
I'm going to hit P to bring up the pen tool and we're going to use this pen tool to manually go in.
And it's very similar to the way we use it to create the time remapping by speeding up and slowing down
our footage in our previous project.
But instead, we don't need to go down to show clip frames and change anything down here like we did
for time remapping.
It's always going to be displaying the opacity as a default.
So all of the clips in my timeline, this line on the clip is always going to be displaying the opacity
parameters.
So I'm going to bring up my pen tool.
I'm going to click where I want to cross, dissolve to end, and I'm going to click where I want it
to begin.
I'm going to hit V to bring up my normal arrow selection tool, and I'm going to drag that down.
And what that does is the same exact thing as this crosses all function.
But we're going to have a little bit more control by.
Right.
Clicking any of the points, clicking bezier.
Clicking the beginning point.
And we can use this lasso to change the angle and speed and trajectory, if you want to call it that,
of our crossfade.
So, for example, we could start it really going very slow for a long time and then to finish, OK,
that's one style.
We can kind of extend this a little bit and smooth this out.
We don't want to create too drastic of a curve here, but I'm going to create a nice looking slope.
So there's a nice gradual introduction to the image.
OK.
And bring up the sound.
It's perfect.
So that's the second option that you can use, just to have even a little bit more control.
Now, to end the video, I want to do it the same way that we started.
So let's go to the end of our sequence.
And we have the final note of the performance, so just on that note, I'm going to create a key frame.
And at the end of our clip, I'm going to drag it down and I'm going to right click these key frames,
click bezier.
Kind of make a nice little curve so we've got something with a little bit of taste and class to it.
And let's see what it looks like.
So that matches up a lot more with our audio versus the original.
That just cuts to black, so that crosses all is perfect for this kind of scenario.